---
layout: post
title: "The best city scooter of 2020 - The eTWOW GT"
description: "By far the best electric scooter I've tried to date!"
date: 2020-02-29
feature_image: images/etwow.jpg
tags: [review]
---

The eTWOW GT scooter vastly exceeded my expectations and as of March 2020, it's my pick for the best city / commuting scooter out there at any price.

<!--more-->

I've put way too many hours into the [Xiaomi m365 scooter](/Xiaomi-m365) (aka the Mi). In fact, I've owned multiple over the past years and have adored it ever since I tried one retrofitted for Bird scooter rental. As I stated in my rundown of the Xiaomi Mi Scooter, it was my pick for best city commuter scooter... until now.

## Selection Criteria
In late January 2020 I started doing research on the latest and greatest electric scooters out there and began my quest to find something that might topple the m365 as the king. I searched around and applied some important metrics for "success" in my case. Namely **weight**, **speed/power**, **range**, **ride comfort**, and finally **price**. Here's my detailed rundown.

### Weight
After injuring my arm lifting the $1,000 [Mercane WideWheel scooter](/WideWheel) (which clocks in at 50 lbs!!!), I vowed to cap my scooter prospects at a maximum weight for sanity/usability. As someone who rides once or twice a day and needs to lift a scooter up a 3-step staircase to get it into my home, I set a new weight cap of "under 30lb". The m365 scooter is 27.5lb and hasn't given me too much trouble so I figured 30lb would be a logical top end. The eTWOW GT weighs in at 26lbs, which is honestly a miracle of science as they were able to pack in twice the power of the m365 and the battery allows for over twice the range! The size and weight on the eTWOW GT is impressive for what it contains.

### Speed / Power
This thing is really fast! Thanks to the speedometer, I know that it regularly hits between 23mph and 25mph and I weigh about 190lbs with my gear on. According to the specs, it has a 700w engine and I haven't had any issues with it being unable to climb hills.

### Range
As far as range goes, it gets about 2.5x to 3x the range in practice that my modified m365 gets. The firmware hack on my m365 that enables it to hit 18mph instead of the stock 15mph definitely hurts its range so keep that in mind with the comparison. Regardless, I'm able to do 5-mile each way journeys (10-mile round trip) and make it back with around \~40% battery to spare while maxing out my speed the whole time, which is impressive! I haven't had a trip yet that pushed my battery down under 40%. If I do, I'll update this to reflect how that went.

### Ride Comfort
Generally I like to stick to pneumatic tires solely for the comfort factor. I've ridden too many solid tire scooters on bumpy roads and felt like my teeth were about to chatter out of my head. Without exaggeration, I've felt like my arms were losing sensitivity from all the vibrations on some electric scooters (looking at you Segway Ninebot ES2!). The eTWOW GT has solid tires which I was definitely fearful of, but the dual suspension shocks have done a surprisingly good job of smoothly easing over bumps. I'd say its about 90% as comfortable as a large pneumatic tire like the 8.5" tube tires on the m365. The value of not worrying about flat tires definitely makes up for the missing 10% in comfort as reliability is important to me as well. I have changed two tires on my m365 and I will NEVER DO IT AGAIN (opting to buy a whole new wheel to avoid the tire replacement process). All in all, the comfort on the eTWOW GT is quite good.

### Price
As of February 2020, the eTWOW GT is surprisingly hard to find in the US. Right now [eWheels.com](https://www.ewheels.com/product/new-e-twow-gt-700w-504wh-25mph/) has them in stock, which is where I purchased mine for $1089. It was well worth the relatively high price and is a serious upgrade over the m365 but I can see how $399 compared to almost $1100 could give some folks pause. For me, as someone who uses this as their primary method of getting around town, it's a worthwhile investment for sure.

### Downsides
As mentioned before, rough patches on the road can be felt with the solid tires moreso than on the m365 (but the reliability of the solid tire plus the shocks helping immensely counter-balance this downside). Additionally, I wish there was a disk brake instead of a magnetic drum brake. The magnetic brake works well and there's an optional foot-stomp brake for fast stops, but I'd prefer the ease of a single disk brake over the dual-brake setup of the eTWOW GT. Lastly the charger is a bit large and has a pretty loud fan in it that runs while actively charging. That's about it for downsides!

### Summary
Overall, I'm very happy with my upgrade to the eTWOW GT. For a starter scooter, the m365 still can't be beat but if you're looking for the best thing out there for city/commuting, this is it!